Choose your own tidymodels adventure (#513)
tidyverse/tidyverse.org: content/blog/choose-tidymodels-adventure/index.Rmd

---
output: hugodown::hugo_document
slug: choose-tidymodels-adventure
title: Choose your own tidymodels adventure
date: 2021-05-24
author: Julia Silge
description: >
    The tidymodels ecosystem is modular and flexible, which can sometimes make
    choosing an approach overwhelming for newcomers. This post offers opinionated 
    guidance on where to start!

photo:
  url: https://unsplash.com/photos/0LXFLzDOfuA
  author: Jonathan Fox

# one of: "deep-dive", "learn", "package", "programming", or "other"
categories: [learn] 
tags: [tidymodels, workflowsets, workflows, parsnip]
---

The [tidymodels](https://www.tidymodels.org/) framework is a collection of R packages for modeling and machine learning using tidyverse principles. You can install the tidymodels suite of packages from CRAN with:

```{r, eval = FALSE}
install.packages("tidymodels")
```

> The packages in tidymodels are designed to work together in a unified ecosystem, but they are flexible and modular; you can use tidymodels packages for certain parts of a modeling analysis without committing to it entirely, when appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The packages in tidymodels are designed to work together in a unified ecosystem, but they are flexible and modular; you can use tidymodels packages for certain parts of a modeling analysis without committing to the entire ecosystem entirely, when preferred.
```

```{r setup}
library(tidymodels)
```

> We purposefully write code in small, modular packages both to make them easier to maintain and easier to use in production systems. This does mean that it can be challenging for a newcomer to know where their specific problem fits into this ecosystem. We generally recommend a couple of resources for folks just getting started:

Reviewer: "where their specific problem fits into" sounds awkward (should it be in instead of into?) but I'm bad with prepositions so I'm not sure

- the [**Get Started** section of tidymodels.org](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/) to get going quickly

- our book [*Tidy Modeling with R*](https://www.tmwr.org/) to dig deeper

> This post takes on a more specific task for a newcomer to tidymodels; we consider several types of real-world modeling analyses and recommend ways to [choose your own adventure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choose_Your_Own_Adventure) in the tidymodels ecosystem.

Reviewer: Having read through the whole post and then coming back to this -- I would suggest saying here that the post will outline three scenarios and give a sentence description of each so (1) reader gets a sense of what they're in for and (2) someone who is only interested in one or two of them knows where to jump to. Perhaps most importantly, though, it's helpful to know that this is how the tidymodels team does a high-level categorization of "things" you can do with tidymodels: single model, workflow, workdlowset.

> ## Starting with the basics: **parsnip**

Reviewer: I imagine the goal of this section is not to repeat the entire Get Started article, but I would suggest adding a bit more here, e.g. how about showing the code for the model accompanying the plot, especially since that plot doesn't come from the linked article. This might also depend on who the audience of this post is, but if true newcomers (knows `lm()` but never before used `linear_reg() %>% set_engine("lm")`) are part of the audience then it would be useful to show the two types of code side by side. The point I like to make here generally is that "yes, we wrote more code to fit this simple model, but starting with this pipeline opens the door up for all the other things you can do within the same pipeline".

Reviewer 2: I second this sentiment:

> "yes, we wrote more code to fit this simple model, but starting with this pipeline opens the door up for all the other things you can do within the same pipeline".

A fully featured ecosystem for modeling and machine learning requires interfaces to, well, models, and the tidymodels package that provides those functions and interfaces is [parsnip](https://parsnip.tidymodels.org/). If your modeling adventure involves small data and straightforward data preprocessing (like that provided by [R's model formula](https://www.tmwr.org/base-r.html#formula)), you may be well-served by focusing on parsnip. To learn more about how to fit and evaluate parsnip models, check out [this article at tidymodel.org's **Get Started** section](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/models/) and [this blog post (complete with screencast) by me](https://juliasilge.com/blog/student-debt/).

> ![Student loan debt by race across time](https://juliasilge.com/blog/student-debt/index_files/figure-html/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)

Reviewer: Would be good to use `knitr::include_graphics()` instead to add alt text with `fig.alt`

> We don't believe most people using tidymodels fall into this first category, but we think that the tools we've built for these kinds of straightforward analyses are well-designed and will set you up for statistical and practical success. Some people will not reach for tidymodels as a whole ecosystem or even parsnip, choosing instead to use underlying model functions, like `lm()` instead of `linear_reg() %>% set_engine("lm")` (or at another extreme of data size and model complexity, the flexibility of [keras](https://keras.rstudio.com/) for deep learning architectures). Why might you choose to use one or more tidymodels packages anyway, if parsnip or the whole ecosystem is not a good fit for you?

Reviewer 3: The last sentence tripped me up a bit. Maybe it could focus more on "other packages that can be useful on their own" rather than what may not a good fit.

> We don't believe most people using tidymodels fall into this first category, but we think that the tools we've built for these kinds of straightforward analyses are well-designed and will set you up for statistical and practical success. Some people will not reach for tidymodels as a whole ecosystem or even parsnip, choosing instead to use underlying model functions, like `lm()` instead of `linear_reg() %>% set_engine("lm")` (or at another extreme of data size and model complexity, the flexibility of [keras](https://keras.rstudio.com/) for deep learning architectures). Why might you choose to use one or more tidymodels packages anyway, if parsnip or the whole ecosystem is not a good fit for you?

Reviewer: I wonder if this is also a good place to say something about "start teaching with tidymodels even if you're not teaching advanced modeling/machine learning to pave the way"? Maybe that's a different post but educators are interested in when/how much to teach tidymodels and I think "just teach parsnip" (or more realistically "just teach parsnip, couple simple recipes, and use broom to tidy output") isn't a bad answer for that question for an intro data science course.

- You may want to use our tidy data resampling infrastructure together with non-tidymodels modeling functions, as shown [here](https://www.tidymodels.org/learn/statistics/bootstrap/) and [here](https://juliasilge.com/blog/ceo-departures/).

- You may want to use [recipes](https://recipes.tidymodels.org/) for feature engineering with non-tidymodels modeling functions, as shown [here](https://smltar.com/dldnn.html).

## Holistic model **workflows**

When you are setting off on a modeling adventure, it might be worth asking what we even mean by the word "model"; it is a word that gets overloaded really quickly! In the tidymodels ecosystem, we carefully incorporate *both* feature engineering (also called data preprocessing) that must be learned from training data *and* a model fit into a modeling workflow that is estimated together. For example, if you trained a least squares regression model with features learned from principal component analysis, the PCA preprocessing step should be considered part of the model workflow:

> ![PCA preprocessing is part of the modeling process](https://www.tmwr.org/premade/proper-workflow.svg)

Reviewer: I think each of the figures could use either a caption or a sentence in the post that directly links to the figure (e.g. "as shown in the figure below..." so it's clear how they relate to the rest of the post).
